# Frequently Asked Questions

## Is Forta a blockchain?

Short answer: no. Forta is not a blockchain in the sense that it does not maintain shared state between nodes, but it has similar characteristics to a blockchain in that it is a decentralized network of nodes. Forta is more similar to [The Graph](https://thegraph.com/en/) protocol in that it runs on top of a blockchain. Forta uses a blockchain (i.e. Polygon) to coordinate scan nodes and store IPFS references to alerts generated by agents.

## How can I consume alerts from agents?

You can subscribe to alerts from specific agents or contracts using [Forta Explorer](https://explorer.forta.network/). If you click on the "Subscribe to alerts" button and connect your wallet, you can setup notifications for alerts. Currently, email and Slack notifications are supported with more options coming in the near future.

## How do I run a scan node?

Currently, several scan nodes are maintained by OpenZeppelin that scan Ethereum mainnet. Forta will release the scan node to the public in the near future, which will enable others to run scan nodes as well. Stay tuned!

## Can I scan other blockchains like BSC?

Currently, Forta is scanning Ethereum mainnet. Scan nodes are able to scan any EVM-compatible blockchain. In the future, more blockchains (e.g. BSC) will be supported.

## Do I need special hardware to run scan nodes?

The expected profile for a scan node is dual or quad core, 8-16GB memory. More specific hardware requirements will be provided once scan nodes are released to the public in the near future.

## What makes a good agent?

Good agents are ones that detect real-world exploits as they occur, or provide warning of suspicious or unexpected conditions. A good agent is one that is targeting a specific condition i.e. if an agent alerts on more than 5% of transactions, the usefulness of those alerts would not be very high as it is difficult to know what to pay attention to.

## Where can I get ideas for agents?

The best ideas for agents are actual exploits that occur in the real world. As the DeFi space grows rapidly, exploits are occurring almost on a daily basis. To stay up-to-date on these exploits, you can check out the [rekt.news](https://rekt.news/) website or subscribe to the [Blockchain Threat Intelligence](https://www.blockthreat.io/) newsletter.

Also, if you are writing agents for your own protocol it can be useful to think about the types of conditions you want to be made aware of, either in your own protocol or upstream/downstream protocols.

## Do I need special hardware to build agents?

The average consumer laptop is more than sufficient to build agents. If you are using your existing developer machine, you will do great.

## How can I create alerts that only I can see?

You can write a "private agent" to generate alerts that can only be understood by you. See the [documentation on writing private agents](private.md).

## Can I include sensitive information like API keys in my agent?

Agents are stored as Docker images in a public repository i.e. anyone can access and inspect the image and its contents. Currently, there is no supported mechanism for storing secrets on agents. We do not recommend storing sensitive information like private keys or API keys on the agent.

## Where is my keyfile?

The `forta-agent` CLI will generate a keyfile for you the first time you initialize an agent project. It can be found in the ~/.forta folder. To get the absolute path and address of your keyfile, use the `npm run keyfile` command from your project folder.

## Can I use my existing Metamask key to publish agents?

You can use any key you prefer for publishing agents.

## My Infura consumption is high during development. What can I do?

If the free tier of services like Infura is not meeting your local development requirements, you can consider running a light Geth node locally. To do this, you would [install Geth](https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/install-and-build/installing-geth) and then run the command `geth --syncmode light --http`. This will expose a JSON-RPC endpoint (defaults to `http://127.0.0.1:8545`) that you can point your agent to using the `jsonRpcUrl` config property in forta.config.json.
