# Maintaining your agent

## Verifying your agent

Once your agent is published **and picked up by a scan node**, you can view the findings it generates using [Forta Explorer](https://explorer.forta.network/). You can filter findings using your agent ID (which looks like a SHA-256 hash e.g. `0x855b1556a45637abf05c63407437f6f305b4627c4361fb965a78e5731999c0c7`) using the search bar near the top of the page.

Also, you can verify that your agent is healthy by visiting the agent's dashboard on Forta Explorer. The URL for this page looks like `https://explorer.forta.network/agent/0x855b1556a45637abf05c63407437f6f305b4627c4361fb965a78e5731999c0c7` (replaced by your agent ID). This dashboard shows various information about the agent including how many transactions it processed, the different severities of alerts it produced and how many times it was stopped by the scan node due to some issue.

## Subscribing to alerts

You can subscribe to alerts generated by your agent using the [Forta Explorer subscriptions page](https://explorer.forta.network/notifications). You will first need to connect your Metamask wallet and sign a message to authenticate. Then you can create subscriptions for an agent ID or a specific contract address. Forta Explorer currently supports Slack and email notifications with more types of notifications coming in the near future.


## Disabling/enabling your agent

Currently, [Forta Connect](https://connect.forta.network/) only supports deploying agents, but in the near future will also support updating, enabling and disabling agents. In the meantime, you can use the CLI to enable or disable your agent.

If you will not be using the alerts your agent generates (i.e. you were just testing out Forta, which we encourage), we ask that you please disable the agent using the CLI command
```
npm run disable
```
Make sure to set the `agentId` property in your **project folder's** forta.config.json before running the command (you should create the forta.config.json if it doesn't exist). You will also need to ensure you have Polygon MATIC tokens in your keyfile address to execute the disable transaction (you can get the keyfile address using `npm run keyfile`). See [this guide](matic.md) on how to acquire Polygon MATIC tokens. Similarly, you can re-enable a disabled agent using `npm run enable`.


## Updating your agent

Currently, [Forta Connect](https://connect.forta.network/) only supports deploying agents, but in the near future will also support updating, enabling and disabling agents. In the meantime, you can use the CLI to update your agent.

You may want to update the code for your agent from time to time (e.g. if you found a bug, or there is a new scenario you want to detect). To update your agent, you would use the CLI command
```
npm run publish
```
If you have already deployed an agent, the CLI will know to update the existing agent. Ensure that the keyfile used for updating is the same one you used for creating the agent. Make sure to set the `agentId` property in your **project folder's** forta.config.json before running the command (you should create the forta.config.json if it doesn't exist). You will also need to ensure you have Polygon MATIC tokens in your keyfile address to execute the update transaction (you can get the keyfile address using `npm run keyfile`). See [this guide](matic.md) on how to acquire Polygon MATIC tokens.

